Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to mar.
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear, So soon forsaken?
O God, I have an ill-divining soul.
Which way?
Tis all one.
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining rage To such a greeting.
But if you do, sir, I am for you.
Go, sirrah, trudge about Through fair Verona.
this do I drink to thee. 
Say thou but ‘I,’ And that bare vowel ‘I’ shall poison more Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
No money, on my faith, but the gleek.
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
The law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend And turns it to exile.
Talk not to me, for I’ll not speak a word.
What day is this?
Nay, good goose, bite not!
I will then give it you soundly.
Twould anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress’ circle Of some strange nature, letting it there stand Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.
Now God in heaven bless thee!
What says he of our marriage?
Then have at thee, boy!
O, be gone!
Her eye discourses.
Do not answer me.
Thou know’st the mask of night is on my face, Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight.
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import Some misadventure.
Her body sleeps in Capels’ monument, And her immortal part with angels lives.
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
Need you my help?
Be not her maid, since she is envious.
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone. 
Thursday is near.
Which way ran he that killed Mercutio?
Dove-feather'd raven!
I will bring you thither.
Have you importuned him by any means?
Dead art thou, dead!
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death, That murdered me.
O lamentable day!
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
O flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified!
O Romeo, Romeo!
Thus with a kiss I die.
My fan, Peter.
Despised substance of divinest show!
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
Out, you baggage!
What, are you busy, ho?
Whistle then to me, As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
Hark you, sir.
the punto reverso!
Marry, bachelor, Her mother is the lady of the house.
Have at thee, coward!
How long is it now To Lammastide?
Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I am done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five.
I would have made it short, for I was come to the whole depth of my tale, and meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
This dagger hath mista'en, for, lo, his house Is empty on the back of Montague, And it missheathed in my daughter's bosom!
Tis late.
Where’s Potpan, that he helps not to take away?
I'll send to one in Mantua, Where that same banish'd runagate doth live, Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram That he shall soon keep Tybalt company; And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied.
What, still in tears, Evermore showering?
O happy dagger, This is thy sheath.
You’ll not endure him!
I'll call them back again to comfort me.
With another, for tying his new shoes with old ribbon?
Wherefore storm you so?
I am peppered, I warrant, for this world.
I stretch it out for that word “broad,” which, added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
And so did I.
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone.
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun Should in the farthest east begin to draw The shady curtains from Aurora’s bed, Away from light steals home my heavy son,
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory, That in gold clasps locks in the golden story; So shall you share all that he doth possess, By having him making yourself no less.
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
Rest you merry!
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Is it good-den?
Anon.
Give me, give me!
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly, And so did I.
Tis torture, and not mercy.
I am sped.
But wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
Come, gentle night; come, loving, black-brow'd night; Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun.
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
She that makes dainty, She, I'll swear, hath corns.
Not Romeo, Prince; he was Mercutio's friend; His fault concludes but what the law should end, The life of Tybalt.
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine, and that thy skill be more To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air, and let rich music’s tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter.
Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie, And young affection gapes to be his heir; That fair for which love groan'd for and would die, With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
Here’s goodly gear.
Dost thou not laugh?
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
Bliss be upon you!
Then I’ll be brief.
I must hear from thee every day in the hour, For in a minute there are many days.
I’ll be with thee straight.
Tut, I have lost myself.
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
Go thy ways, wench.
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here Shalt with him hence.
A greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents.
I'll find out your man, And he shall signify from time to time Every good hap to you that chances here.
I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd.
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny What I have spoke; but farewell complement!
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
Proud can I never be of what I hate, But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
Why I descend into this bed of death Is partly to behold my lady's face, But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger A precious ring—a ring that I must use In dear employment.
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel When well-apparell'd April on the heel Of limping Winter treads, even such delight Among fresh female buds shall you this night Inherit at my house.
Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose.
Tis now near night.
And, to sink in it, should you burden love— Too great oppression for a tender thing.
O simple!
Thy Juliet is alive, For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead— There art thou happy.
Oh, that she knew she were!
Her vestal livery is but sick and green, And none but fools do wear it.
But, as I said, On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Doth not she think me an old murderer, Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy With blood remov'd but little from her own?
Spakest thou of Juliet?
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help, Do thou but call my resolution wise, And with this knife I’ll help it presently.
You say you do not know the lady’s mind.
Romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio.
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title.
O brother Montague, give me thy hand.
Whence come you?
He bears him like a portly gentleman, And, to say truth, Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.
O, here Will I set up my everlasting rest And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars From this world-wearied flesh.
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
Where I have learnt me to repent the sin Of disobedient opposition To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here To beg your pardon.
I will carry no crotchets.
Tis no less, I tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon.
What, lamb!
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
turn thy back and run?
I drink to thee.
I would I were thy bird.
take me with you, take me with you, wife.
Will you go to them?
Then weep no more.
God ye good-den, fair gentlewoman.
A cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
What is it else?
Thou dost not mark me.
Hold, there is forty ducats.
Look, love, what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder East.
My child, my only life, Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!— Help, help!
O gentle Romeo, If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
If that thy bent of love be honourable, Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow, By one that I'll procure to come to thee, Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
Forswear it, sight!
What are they, beseech your ladyship?
Thou art not conquered.
Have you got leave to go to shrift today?
A sail, a sail!
I will omit no opportunity That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin, To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
when ’twas a little prating thing.—Oh, there is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain lay knife aboard, but she, good soul, had as lief see a toad, a very toad, as see him.
Now God in heaven bless thee!
Hence, and stand aloof.
Tybalt, my cousin!
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
I pay thy poverty and not thy will.
Be merciful, say “death,” For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death.
Alas, poor Romeo!
So tedious is this day As is the night before some festival To an impatient child that hath new robes And may not wear them.
I thought all for the best.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there, Remembering how I love thy company.
Tis all one.
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail, Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
Here were the servants of your adversary, And yours, close fighting ere I did approach.
Alack the day!
My lord, I would that Thursday were tomorrow.
God mark thee to his grace!
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while, Till we can clear these ambiguities And know their spring, their head, their true descent, And then will I be general of your woes, And lead you even to death.
I will hence tonight.
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament.
Get me ink and paper, And hire post horses.
I hear some noise within.
Dove-feathered raven, wolvish-ravening lamb!
Even or odd, of all days in the year, Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
I would the fool were married to her grave!
And for that offence Immediately we do exile him hence.
These times of woe afford no tune to woo.
By Jesu, a very good blade!
Out, you green sickness, carrion!
By my holy order, I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
And when I shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun.
O comfortable Friar!
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears?
She's dead, deceas'd; she's dead!
Indeed, I should have asked thee that before.
And she as much in love, her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere.
The grey-ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night, Check'ring the Eastern clouds with streaks of light; And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels.
They stumble that run fast.
Thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarreling.
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
And all the better is it for the maid.
What if this mixture do not work at all?
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine, And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth; And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
Well, you have made a simple choice.
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans, Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.
Tis the way To call hers, exquisite, in question more.
Send thy man away.
O Lord, I could have stayed here all the night To hear good counsel.
Said he not so?
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
And what says My concealed lady to our canceled love?
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
Go then, for 'tis in vain ‘To seek him here that means not to be found. 
Tybalt, you ratcatcher, will you walk?
I will come again.
I will, and know her mind early tomorrow.
I do remember well where I should be, And there I am.
I drew to part them.
Romeo he cries aloud, ‘Hold, friends!
Well, in that hit you miss.
My life were better ended by their hate Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Misshapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
I must to the learned.
Cry but “Ay me!” Pronounce but “love” and “dove.” Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word, One nickname for her purblind son and heir, Young Abraham Cupid, he that shot so true When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid.— He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not.
Alack the day!
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Out, alas!
Now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
Where have you been gadding?
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse.
Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline, Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
Going to find a barefoot brother out, One of our order, to associate me Here in this city visiting the sick, And finding him, the searchers of the town, Suspecting that we both were in a house Where the infectious pestilence did reign, Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth, So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
I’ll to my rest.
Well, peace be with you, sir.
Thou knowest my lodging.
Courage, man.
At lovers’ perjuries, They say Jove laughs.
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Life, living, all is Death’s.
In bed asleep while they do dream things true.
For what, I pray thee?
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs And never trouble Peter for the matter.
A merry whoreson, ha!
And art thou chang'd?
Or did I dream it so?
The law that threatened death becomes thy friend And turns it to exile—there art thou happy.
That same villain, Romeo.
Two such opposed kings encamp them still In man as well as herbs—grace and rude will; And where the worser is predominant, Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Give me my sin again.
Thou villain Capulet!
Ye say honestly.
he scrape a trencher!
Alas the day, it did.
This torture should be roared in dismal hell.
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not.
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet To help me sort such needful ornaments As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
Hold thy desperate hand.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks: They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Grief of my son’s exile hath stopped her breath.
apothecary!
Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books; But love from love, towards school with heavy looks.
This doth not so, for she divideth us.
O deadly sin!
God ye good e'en, fair gentlewoman.
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Beshrew your heart for sending me about To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
And when I do, I swear It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate, Rather than Paris.
Yea,” quoth he, “Dost thou fall upon thy face?
Here is for thy pains.
O, no, a lantern, slaughtr'd youth, For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes This vault a feasting presence full of light.
What, rouse thee, man!
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
Why, I am glad on ’t.
Dry sorrow drinks our blood.
Tis no time to play now.
Tomorrow will I send.
For this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune, Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Alas that love, so gentle in his view, Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
You take your pennyworths now!
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let’s retire.
Fear me not.
Couple it with something.
I am the drudge, and toil in your delight; But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
What mean these masterless and gory swords To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
But he which bore my letter, Friar John, Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight Return'd my letter back.
Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud; Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies, And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine With repetition of my Romeo's name.
How long hath he been there?
Tybalt is dead, and Romeo banished.’ That ‘banished,’ that one word ‘banished,’ Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts.
Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
Ha, banishment?
Old Montague is come And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
Life and these lips have long been separated.
I pray thee, hold thy peace.
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
An eagle, madam, Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye As Paris hath.
I am sped.
More validity, More honourable state, more courtship lives In carrion flies than Romeo.
But by and by comes back to Romeo, Who had but newly entertained revenge, And to ’t they go like lightning, for ere I Could draw to part them was stout Tybalt slain.
or did I dream it so?
Beguiled, divorcèd, wrongèd, spited, slain!
Perhaps you have learned it without book.
Piteous predicament!
Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him; And go, Sir Paris.
Your plantain leaf is excellent for that.
What counterfeit did I give you?
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old I bade her come.
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry In what I further shall intend to do, By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.
Ah, my back, my back!
I beg for justice, which thou, Prince, must give.
Tis almost morning.
Well, thou hast comforted me marvelous much.
Alas that love, whose view is muffled still, Should without eyes see pathways to his will!
News from Verona!—How now, Balthasar?
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry, I must up-fill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
Tybalt’s death Was woe enough, if it had ended there.
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
Where is the County's page that rais'd the watch?
O most wicked fiend!
What said my man, when my betossèd soul Did not attend him as we rode?
To-morrow will I send.
That’s a certain text.